---
title: Race Warm Up
date: 16.09.2019
author: David Bedford
excerpt: With one eye on the weekend and the race I thought this would be an ideal time to go out and stretch my legs, the idea was to keep it relatively light and still have enough time before the race to recover.
runningMetrics:
    runDate: 04.09.2019
    startTime: 19:10pm
    timeRan: 30m 30s
    distance: 3.38km
    avgPace: 09:01 min/km
    avgHeartRate: 148bpm
    temperature: 17C
    weather: Cloudy
---

With one eye on the weekend and the race I thought this would be an ideal time to go out and stretch my legs, the idea was to keep it relatively light and still have enough time before the race to recover. 

I slipped on my trail shoes that I would be using during the race to make sure I felt comfortable in them and off I set. I headed for my usual route that took me through the park, it's only a short circular route and leaves me with a short walk home by the time I'm finished to cool down. For some reason I found this particular run, despite it only meaning to be a short, easy workout, really tough! My legs were playing havock with me, first it was my right calf like usual that started to get tight, then it switched to my left calf, to then both of them and then back to alternating again. I'm unsure as to why this was but I'm putting it down to the fact that I was pacing myself, an average split of 9 minutes testifies to that, and I had to really focus on maintaining that speed and not get carried away. Better this happens now than during my race, I kept telling myself! Much of the rest of the run I can't tell you much about, I was concentrating hard on my pace to notice anything else, except it passed without incident!

Last time out I mentioned I had a Choc Brownie protein bar, this time I tried a Choc Peanut Butter one, and although I'm not usually a fan of peanut butter, this wasn't a strong flavour and I'm glad to say it tasted better than the Choc Brownie!s