---
title: Kit Day
date: 25.08.2019
author: David Bedford
excerpt: In an attempt to look and feel more like a runner I thought it was about time I got some decent gear, can you believe it's been over 10 years since I last brought a pair of shorts or a top!?
runningMetrics:
    runDate: 23.08.2019
    startTime: 19:42pm
    timeRan: 40m 20s
    distance: 5.01km
    avgPace: 08:03 min/km
    avgHeartRate: 171bpm
    temperature: 23C
    weather: Sunny
---

In an attempt to look and feel more like a runner I thought it was about time I got some decent gear, can
you believe it's been over 10 years since I last brought a pair of shorts or a top!? The tops I had been 
using were from a couple of races I did where they handed them out as prizes. So I ordered some stuff online
and over a couple of days my gear arrived, including my new socks, and oh what a pair of socks they are!
Now with all my gear assembled and race day only a couple of weeks away I thought it would be wise to try 
my new kit out. A 5km run around the park should do it!

It was later in the evening than usual by the time I got out the house and to the park, and it was also still
considerably warm so I made sure to bring along some water with me. This time of day is probably one of my 
favourites, with the sun hanging low in the sky and everything in front of me bathed in a golden glow, it 
felt almost magical and the park had a peaceful and tranquil prescence about it which just added to the magic.
I started off beneath the trees at a comfortable pace following the Park Run route, about half a kilometre
in however I was stopped for a few seconds by a woman asking for directions to the gate. With the woman
happily on her way I carried on and cresting the top of the hill I was greeted by a spectacular view of the 
Shard and the London skyline! I made my way down hill along the tarmacked path and it wasn't long before I
noticed a pain once again(!) radiating from the outside of my right calf. It didn't last long though as it
morphed into what felt like a knot at the bottom of my calf. The 2-3km was marked by a gentle, grassy slope
which with my calf was a struggle but by the time I reached the top it meant I was on my way back towards
the finish line. At this point the path turned to loose gravel and was fairly flat up until the last 
kilometer, what I wasn't expecting though was my left leg starting to feel the burn, it must have felt sorry
for my right leg and taken up some of the strain! I made use of the flat ground to recover a little knowing
that the last kilometer would be all up hill and it certainly helped, the short downhill gave me a last 
little respite and my legs had seemed to recover, now it was time to focus and tackle the climb. I'd made
my way to where I had began, and with only roughly 200m to go and feeling pretty good I decided I'd push
myself to finish strong. It was a challenge as I passed beneath the trees as it was now fairly dark beneath
their canopy and I knew the surface was uneven, and with my tiring legs I did nearly trip but I managed to
hold it and crossed the line sucking in mouthfuls of air at a time. It felt good!

Now, one thing I noticed throughout my run was the lack of a blister that had plagued me during my other
outings, and I'm going to put that down to my new socks, quarter length Steigen, 100% blister proof socks,
and as advertised on their site, it didn't feel like I was wearing any socks at all, they were both light
and comfortable and I'd defintely recommened them to anybody. Not forgetting about the rest of my new kit,
I was impressed, it was extremely comfortable and kept me cool in the warm conditions, plus I felt more
like a runner to boot!

