---
title: Stuck In The Middle
date: 2019-09-21
author: David Bedford
excerpt: With this run finished I felt pretty good overall and with what I've accomplished up until this point. And with the training plan in place I'm looking forward to getting that much fitter and faster too!
runningMetrics:
    runDate: 12.09.2019
    startTime: 18:55pm
    timeRan: 30m 05s
    distance: 3.97km
    avgPace: 07:35 min/km
    avgHeartRate: 161bpm
    temperature: 20C
    weather: Cloudy
---

So this was my first run since the race, I took a few extra days off to ensure I had fully recovered and given myself a few days rest afterwards before I start a 6 week training plan. I found the plan through Strava which seems to use McMillan Running to provide the sessions, the idea is it'll help me to get to my target of 5km in 30 minutes. I thought that now I have a bit of a fitness base it'd be time to push on.

With the above in mind this was only a short run and a way to keep things ticking over. The run went without a hiccup, I was feeling fresh after the few days off so I decided to push myself a little and see how far I could get within in the time. The route was the normal one up into the park and back down again, I find coming downhill for the last bit of the run really helps, it allows me to catch my breath while still maintaining my pace. I was getting close to the end of my run and closing in on 4km which I think I could have hit, I was still at this time feeling strong and there was no issues, like the entirety of my run so far, and then a bus pulled out of the road in front of me which caused me to slow down in order to go round it, which was a little annoying as I was only ~30 metres short of 4km so without that I think I would have made it. 

With this run finished I felt pretty good overall and with what I've accomplished up until this point. And with the training plan in place I'm looking forward to getting that much fitter and faster too!