---
title: Negative Splits
date: 11.09.2019
author: David Bedford
excerpt: Another evening run, another trip to the park! I slipped on my shoes and headed out the door, immediately I felt like my feet were going to slip out my trainers.
runningMetrics:
    runDate: 29.08.2019
    startTime: 19:19pm
    timeRan: 39m 32s
    distance: 5.02km
    avgPace: 07:52 min/km
    avgHeartRate: 161bpm
    temperature: 20C
    weather: Sunny
---

Okay so I've been a little slack in writing this one up (it's been almost 2 weeks)! I have kept up with my training though just not the writing aspect but I'm back on it now.

Another evening run, another trip to the park! I slipped on my shoes and headed out the door, immediately I felt like my feet were going to slip out my trainers. I had put on a pair of my new socks and I think the thinness of them in my normal runners caught me out despite them being done up tightly. After a few strides however I had forgotten all about it and settled into my run. At about the 6 minute mark my watch buzzed and flashed up a message stating '+4' and a green indicator, I believe this is an indication of performance (I should really look it up), but being a positive number and green I took it as a good sign, and judging by my stats at the end of my run and how I was feeling, boy was it good! Around this point I started to feel my right calf begin to tighten up like usual but as I continued to run I found myself slip into a rhythm, something I hadn't done in a while, and soon I stopped noticing my calf. Instead I was getting quicker with each kilometre that passed, looking at the splits after my run showed I was a good 20-30 seconds faster than the previous kilometre. I would definitely say finding my rythm helped in this, it got to a point where I knew my legs would not stop or slow down, I was going to finish this run strong, I now just needed the rest of my body to keep! Luckily I only had to head back down and so with only a kilometre and a half to go at this point I pushed on and allowed my speed to increase naturally as gravity pulled me down. The last 1km was flat and with the speed I carried and the breath I had caught coming down hill it passed by in a flash, finishing just under 40 minutes. Although the time isn't the most important thing right now it still felt good, and I felt good too despite sucking in as much air as possible!

After my run I tried a protein bar as part of my recovery. I think it was meant to be a choc brownie flavour, though I must admit the real thing is much tastier. It was part of a box of 6 assorted nutritional suppliments from Tribe that I got a cheap introductory offer on.